Expanded and Improved Catalog Customization Docs (#22858)
backstage/backstage: docs/features/software-catalog/catalog-customization.md

---

The Backstage software catalog comes with a default `CatalogIndexPage` to filter and find catalog entities. This is already set up by default by `@backstage/create-app`. If you want to change the default index page - to set the initially selected filter, adjust columns, add actions, or to add a custom filter to the catalog - the following sections will show you how.

## Pagination

Initial support for pagination of the `CatalogIndexPage` was added in v1.21.0 of Backstage, make sure you are on that version or newer to use this feature. To enable pagination you simply need to pass in the `pagination` prop like this:

```tsx title="packages/app/src/App.tsx"
<Route path="/catalog" element={<CatalogIndexPage pagination />} />
```

## Initially Selected Filter

By default the initially selected filter defaults to Owned, now you might be still building up your catalog and would prefer this to show All as the default. Here's how you can make that change:

```tsx title="packages/app/src/App.tsx"
<Route
  path="/catalog"
  element={<CatalogIndexPage initiallySelectedFilter="all" />}
/>
```

Possible options are: owned, starred, or all

## Initially Selected Kind

> By default the initially selected Kind when viewing the Catalog in Component, but you may have reasons that you want this to be different. Let's say at your Organization they would like it to always default to Domain, here's how you would do that:

Reviewer: Typo: "is component" in first sentence

Author: Good catch, fixed 👍

```tsx title="packages/app/src/App.tsx"
<Route path="/catalog" element={<CatalogIndexPage initialKind="domain" />} />
```

Possible options are all the [default Kinds](system-model.md) as well as any custom Kinds that you have added.

## Owner Picker Mode

The Owner filter by default will only contain a list of Users and/or Groups that actually own an entity in the Catalog, now you may have reason to change this. Here's how:

```tsx title="packages/app/src/App.tsx"
<Route path="/catalog" element={<CatalogIndexPage ownerPickerMode="all" />} />
```

Possible options are: owners-only or all

## Customize Columns

> By default the columns you see in the `CatalogIndexPage` were selected to be a good starting point for most but there may be reasons that you would like to customize these with more or less columns. On primary use case for this customization is if you added a custom Kind. Support for this was added in v1.23.0 of Backstage, make sure you are on that version or newer to use this feature. Here's an example of how to make this customization:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default the columns you see in the `CatalogIndexPage` were selected to be a good starting point for most but there may be reasons that you would like to customize these with more or less columns. One primary use case for this customization is if you added a custom Kind. Support for this was added in v1.23.0 of Backstage, make sure you are on that version or newer to use this feature. Here's an example of how to make this customization:
```

Author: Good catch, fixed 👍

```tsx title="packages/app/src/App.tsx"
import {
  CatalogEntityPage,
  CatalogIndexPage,
  catalogPlugin,
  {/* highlight-add-start */}
  CatalogTable,
  CatalogTableColumnsFunc,
  {/* highlight-add-end */}
} from '@backstage/plugin-catalog';

{/* highlight-add-start */}
const myColumnsFunc: CatalogTableColumnsFunc = entityListContext => {
  if (entityListContext.filters.kind?.value === 'MyKind') {
    return [
      CatalogTable.columns.createNameColumn(),
      CatalogTable.columns.createOwnerColumn(),
    ];
  }

  return CatalogTable.defaultColumnsFunc(entityListContext);
};
{/* highlight-add-end */}

{/* highlight-remove-next-line */}
<Route path="/catalog" element={<CatalogIndexPage />} />
{/* highlight-add-next-line */}
<Route path="/catalog" element={<CatalogIndexPage columns={myColumnsFunc} />} />
```

> Note: the above example has been simplified and you will most likely have more code then just this in your `App.tsx` file.

## Customize Actions

> The `CatalogIndexPage` comes with three default actions - view, edit, and star. You might want to add more here's how:
> 
> First you'll need to add `@mui/utils` to your `packages/app/package.json`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `CatalogIndexPage` comes with three default actions - view, edit, and star. You might want to add more.

To do this, first you'll need to add `@mui/utils` to your `packages/app/package.json`:
```

Possible suggestion, just removes the duplicate colon entry points.

Author: I like it, changed to match 👍

  ({ entity }) => {
    const url = 'https://backstage.io/';
    const title = `View - ${entity.metadata.name}`;

    return {
      icon: () => (
        <>
          <Typography style={visuallyHidden}>{title}</Typography>
          <OpenInNew fontSize="small" />
        </>
      ),
      tooltip: title,
      disabled: !url,
      onClick: () => {
        if (!url) return;
        window.open(url, '_blank');
      },
    };
  },
];
{/* highlight-add-end */}

{/* highlight-remove-next-line */}
<Route path="/catalog" element={<CatalogIndexPage />} />
{/* highlight-add-next-line */}
<Route path="/catalog" element={<CatalogIndexPage actions={customActions} />} />
```

> Note: the above example has been simplified and you will most likely have more code then just this in your `App.tsx` file.

The above customization will override the existing actions. Currently the only way to keep them and add your own is to also include the existing actions in your array by copying them from the [`defaultActions`](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/57397e7d6d2d725712c439f4ab93f2ac6aa27bf8/plugins/catalog/src/components/CatalogTable/CatalogTable.tsx#L113-L168).

## Custom Filters

> You can add custom filters. For example, suppose that I want to allow filtering by a custom annotation added to entities, `company.com/security-tier`. Here is how we can built a filter to support that need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add custom filters. For example, suppose that I want to allow filtering by a custom annotation added to entities, `company.com/security-tier`. Here is how we can build a filter to support that need.
```

description: How to add custom filters or interface elements to the Backstage software catalog
---

The Backstage software catalog comes with a default `CatalogIndexPage` to filter and find catalog entities. This is already set up by default by `@backstage/create-app`. If you want to change the default index page - to set the initially selected filter, adjust columns, add actions, or to add a custom filter to the catalog - the following sections will show you how.

## Pagination

> Initial support for pagination of the `CatalogIndexPage` was added in v1.21.0 of Backstage, make sure you are on that version or newer to use this feature. To enable pagination you simply need to pass in the `pagination` prop like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initial support for pagination of the `CatalogIndexPage` was added in v1.21.0 of Backstage, so make sure you are on that version or newer to use this feature. To enable pagination you simply need to pass in the `pagination` prop like this:
```

Author: Fixed 👍

the catalog - you can create your own `CatalogIndexPage`.
## Pagination

> Note: The catalog index page is designed to have a minimal code footprint to
> support easy customization, but creating a copy does introduce a possibility
> of drifting out of date over time. Be sure to check the catalog
> [CHANGELOG](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/master/plugins/catalog/CHANGELOG.md)
> periodically.
Initial support for pagination of the `CatalogIndexPage` was added in v1.21.0 of Backstage, so make sure you are on that version or newer to use this feature. To enable pagination you simply need to pass in the `pagination` prop like this:

For example, suppose that I want to allow filtering by a custom annotation added
to entities, `company.com/security-tier`. To start, I'll copy the code for the
default catalog page and create a component.
```tsx title="packages/app/src/App.tsx"
<Route path="/catalog" element={<CatalogIndexPage pagination />} />
```

```tsx
// imports, etc omitted for brevity. for full source see:
// https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/master/plugins/catalog/src/components/CatalogPage/DefaultCatalogPage.tsx

> export const CustomCatalogPage = ({

Reviewer 2: On this deletion, I'll say though, I think the original idea was that it opens up for really ANY type of customization fairly easily (at the cost of these lines of boilerplate). Like replacing the header and what's in it,  the support button ...

Might be worth retaining this as the advanced option, such that "if you need to go beyond these simpler options, here's how to replace the page as a whole using its constituent sub-parts" so to speak

Author: Let me see what I can do to add this back, it's a valid option for those who want to go much deeper customizing htis. The problem I was running into was that it wasn't as simple as copying what we as at - https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/master/plugins/catalog/src/components/CatalogPage/DefaultCatalogPage.tsx - I needed to pull in more "things".

Author: Alright, added back but had to do s bit of adjustments, think this worked enough to give people the right idea.

  ({ entity }) => {
    const url = 'https://backstage.io/';
    const title = `View - ${entity.metadata.name}`;

    return {
      icon: () => (
        <>
          <Typography style={visuallyHidden}>{title}</Typography>
          <OpenInNew fontSize="small" />
        </>
      ),
      tooltip: title,
      disabled: !url,
      onClick: () => {
        if (!url) return;
        window.open(url, '_blank');
      },
    };
  },
];
{/* highlight-add-end */}

{/* highlight-remove-next-line */}
<Route path="/catalog" element={<CatalogIndexPage />} />
{/* highlight-add-next-line */}
<Route path="/catalog" element={<CatalogIndexPage actions={customActions} />} />
```

> Note: the above example has been simplified and you will most likely have more code then just this in your `App.tsx` file.

The above customization will override the existing actions. Currently the only way to keep them and add your own is to also include the existing actions in your array by copying them from the [`defaultActions`](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/57397e7d6d2d725712c439f4ab93f2ac6aa27bf8/plugins/catalog/src/components/CatalogTable/CatalogTable.tsx#L113-L168).

## Customize Filters

> There are tree options you have for filters: adjusting the existing filters with props, adding or removing the default filters, or creating a brand new custom filter. The following sections cover these cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three options you have for filters: adjusting the existing filters with props, adding or removing the default filters, or creating a brand new custom filter. The following sections cover these cases
```

🌴 ? 😁

Author: LOL! Fixed 👍

### Default Filter Props

> There is a set of default filters that you can use, they surface all the props mentioned earlier in this document. Here's how they can be used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a set of default filters that you can use, which surface all the props mentioned earlier in this document. Here's how they can be used:
```

Author: Fixed 👍

Possible options are: owners-only or all

## Table Options

> The tables used within Backstage are built on top of [`@material-table/core`](https://material-table-core.github.io/) and the `CatalogIndexPage` has a `tableOptions` prop that allows you to customize the underlying table to a certain extent, there are some hard coded Backstage settings that can't be changed. Here's an example of how to use this prop to disable the search filter field in the table's header:

Author: Fixed 👍

};
```

Now we can add the component to `CatalogIndexPage`:

```tsx title="packages/app/src/App.tsx"

> {
>   /* highlight-add-start */
> }
> import { DefaultFilters } from '@backstage/plugin-catalog-react';
> {
>   /* highlight-add-end */
> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{/* highlight-add-start */}
import { DefaultFilters } from '@backstage/plugin-catalog-react';
{/* highlight-add-end */}
```

Author: Fixed, seems every time my editor applies the formatting it does this, not sure why just here and not the other cases 🤔
